# Shortend panpage from macos. Obtained with command "man script".

SCRIPT(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 SCRIPT(1)

NAME
     script – make typescript of terminal session

SYNOPSIS
     script [-adkpqr] [-F pipe] [-t time] [file [command ...]]

DESCRIPTION
     The script utility makes a typescript of everything printed on your terminal.  It is useful for
     students who need a hardcopy record of an interactive session as proof of an assignment, as the
     typescript file can be printed out later with lpr(1).

     If the argument file is given, script saves all dialogue in file.  If no file name is given, the
     typescript is saved in the file typescript.

     If the argument command is given, script will run the specified command with an optional argument
     vector instead of an interactive shell.

     The following options are available:

     -a      Append the output to file or typescript, retaining the prior contents.

     -d      When playing back a session with the -p flag, do not sleep between records when playing back a
             timestamped session.

     -F pipe
             Immediately flush output after each write.  This will allow a user to create a named pipe using
             mkfifo(1) and another user may watch the live session using a utility like cat(1).

     -k      Log keys sent to the program as well as output.

     -p      Play back a session recorded with the -r flag in real time.

     -q      Run in quiet mode, omit the start, stop and command status messages.

     -r      Record a session with input, output, and timestamping.

     -t time
             Specify the interval at which the script output file will be flushed to disk, in seconds.  A
             value of 0 causes script to flush after every character I/O event.  The default interval is 30
             seconds.

     The script ends when the forked shell (or command) exits (a control-D to exit the Bourne shell (sh(1)),
     and exit, logout or control-D (if ignoreeof is not set) for the C-shell, csh(1)).

     Certain interactive commands, such as vi(1), create garbage in the typescript file.  The script utility
     works best with commands that do not manipulate the screen.  The results are meant to emulate a
     hardcopy terminal, not an addressable one.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables are utilized by script:

     SCRIPT
            The SCRIPT environment variable is added to the sub-shell.  If SCRIPT already existed in the
            users environment, its value is overwritten within the sub-shell.  The value of SCRIPT is the
            name of the typescript file.

     SHELL  If the variable SHELL exists, the shell forked by script will be that shell.  If SHELL is not
            set, the Bourne shell is assumed.  (Most shells set this variable automatically).

SEE ALSO
     csh(1)
